Key management docs overhaul (#3455)
celo-org/celo-monorepo: packages/docs/operations-manual/key-management/detailed.md

# Detailed Description of Celo Account Roles

> This page provides a detailed description of the various account rolese found in the Celo protocol, as well as small examples of how to designate and account as playing a particular role.

Reviewer: Typo "rolese" - should be $roles"

## Celo Accounts

Any private key generated for use in the Celo protocol has a corresponding address. The account address is the last 20 bytes of the hash of the corresponding public key, just as in Ethereum. Celo account keys can be used to sign and send transactions on the Celo network.

Celo Accounts can be designated as Locked Gold Accounts or authorized as signer keys on behalf of a Locked Gold Account by sending special transactions using [celocli](../../command-line-interface/introduction). Note that Celo accounts that have not been designated as Locked Gold Accounts or authorized signers may not be able to send certain transactions related to proof-of-stake.

## Locked Gold Accounts

> [Locked Gold](../../celo-codebase/protocol/proof-of-stake/locked-gold.md) Account keys have the highest level of privilege in the Celo protocol. These keys can be used to lock and unlock cGLD in order to be used in proof-of-stake. Furthermore, Locked Gold Account keys can be used to authorize other keys to sign transactions and messages on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer: is cGLD defined anywhere?

In *most* cases, the Locked Gold Account key has all the privileges as any authorized signers. For example, if a voter signer is authorized, a user can place votes on behalf of the Locked Gold Account with both the authorized vote signer *and* the Locked Gold Account.

> Because of the significant priveleges afforded to the Locked Gold Account, it is best to store this key securely and access it as infrequently as is possible. Authorizing other signers is one way to minimize how frequently you need to access your Locked Gold Account key. The Locked Gold Account key will only be used to send transactions and **can be stored on a Ledger hardware wallet.**

Reviewer: The Locked Gold Account key MAY only be used to 

Link to Ledger hardware wallet instructions?

### Creating a Locked Gold Account
A Celo account may be designated as a Locked Gold Account by running the following command:

```shell
# Designate the Celo account as a Locked Gold Account
celocli account:create --from $ADDRESS_TO_DESIGNATE --useLedger

# Confirm the address was designated as a Locked Gold Account
celocli account:show $ADDRESS_TO_DESIGNATE
```

> Note that [ReleaseGold](../../celo-codebase/protocol/release-gold) beneficiary keys are considered vanilla Celo accounts with respect to proof-of-stake, and that the `ReleaseGold` contract address is what ultimately gets designated as a Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer: "vanilla" may not make sense for a non-native English speaker

# Detailed Description of Key Types

> This page provides a detailed description of the various key prototypes found in the Celo protocol, as well as small examples of how to designate key types in the Celo proof-of-stake smart contracts.

Reviewer 2: Detailed Description of Celo Account Roles

> ## Undesignated

Reviewer 2: Celo Account

Any private key generated for use in the protocol has a corresponding Account and Address. The Address is the last 20 bytes of the hash of the public key which corresponds to private key. These keys...

> By default, any private key generated in the Celo protocol does not have a specific role in proof-of-stake. These keys can be used to sign and send transactions that are unrelated to Celo's proof-of-stake protocol, including but by no means limited to transferring Celo Gold, transferring Celo Dollars, exchanging Celo Gold for Celo Dollars, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, any private key generated in the Celo protocol does not have a specific role in consensus. Undesignated keys can be used to sign and send transactions that are unrelated to consensus, including but by no means limited to transferring Celo Gold, transferring Celo Dollars, exchanging Celo Gold for Celo Dollars, etc.
```

Author: Outdated after @cmcewen's feedback

> Undesignated keys can be designated as Locked Gold Accounts or authorized as signer keys on behalf of a Locked Gold Account by sending special transactions using `celocli`.

Reviewer 2: would skip this part till you explain all the different types

> Undesignated keys can be designated as Locked Gold Accounts or authorized as signer keys on behalf of a Locked Gold Account by sending special transactions using `celocli`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Undesignated keys can be designated as Locked Gold Accounts or authorized as signer keys on behalf of a Locked Gold Account by sending special transactions using [celocli](../../command-line-interface/introduction).
```

Author: Accepting manually

> Note that [ReleaseGold](../../celo-codebase/protocol/release-gold) beneficiary keys are by default Undesignated with respect to proof-of-stake, and that the `ReleaseGold` contract address is what ultimately gets designated as a Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer 3: May be a bit in the weeds here, might consider moving this into the locked gold section

> Note that [ReleaseGold](../../celo-codebase/protocol/release-gold) beneficiary keys are by default Undesignated with respect to proof-of-stake, and that the `ReleaseGold` contract address is what ultimately gets designated as a Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that [ReleaseGold](../../celo-codebase/protocol/release-gold) beneficiary keys are by default undesignated with respect to proof-of-stake, and that the `ReleaseGold` contract address is what ultimately gets designated as a Locked Gold Account.
```

Author: Removed this terminology

## Locked Gold Accounts

> Locked Gold Account keys have the highest level of privileges in the Celo protocol. These keys can be used to lock and unlock cGLD in order to be used in proof-of-stake. Furthermore, Locked Gold Account keys can be used to authorize other keys to sign transactions and messages on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer 2: I would just use Account everywhere and not use keys since it is implied that you need a private key for an account

Author: Yeah I think your suggestion around "celo accounts" lead towards a much clearer and consistent terminology. Only using "key" from here on out when referencing the private key material directly (e.g. keep your key on a ledger)

> Locked Gold Account keys have the highest level of privileges in the Celo protocol. These keys can be used to lock and unlock cGLD in order to be used in proof-of-stake. Furthermore, Locked Gold Account keys can be used to authorize other keys to sign transactions and messages on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Locked Gold Account keys have the highest level of privilege in the Celo protocol. These keys can be used to lock and unlock cGLD in order to be used in proof-of-stake. Furthermore, Locked Gold Account keys can be used to authorize other keys to sign transactions and messages on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.
```

Author: Accepted manually as already editing

In *most* cases, the Locked Gold Account key has all the privileges as any authorized keys. For example, if a voter signing key is authorized, a user can place votes on behalf of the Locked Gold Account with both the authorized vote signing key *and* the Locked Gold Account key.

> Because of the significant priveleges afforded to the Locked Gold Account key, it is best to store this key securely and access it as infrequently as is possible. Authorizing other signer keys is one way to minimize how frequently you need to access your Locked Gold Account key. The Locked Gold Account key will only be used to send transactions and **can be stored on a Ledger hardware wallet.**

Reviewer 3: awesome 👍

### Creating a Locked Gold Account
An undesignated key may be designated as a Locked Gold Account key by running the following command:

```shell
# Designate the key as a Locked Gold Account

> celocli account:create --from $ADDRESS_TO_DESIGNATE --useLedger

Reviewer 3: are addresses public key hashes?  or are key / address interchangeable?

Author: Used inconsistently here, tried to overhaul

# Confirm the key was designated as a Locked Gold Account
celocli account:show $ADDRESS_TO_DESIGNATE

> ```

Reviewer 3: TODO [later]: explain after this that the accounts module in celocli deals with all Locked Gold Accounts

## Authorized Vote Signers

> Any Locked Gold Account key may optionally authorize an undesignated key as a vote signing key. Authorized vote signing keys can vote in validator elections and on-chain governance on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer 2: authorize another account to sign votes

Author: Calling these authorized vote signers everywhere now, I think it's much more consistent

> Any Locked Gold Account key may optionally authorize an undesignated key as a vote signing key. Authorized vote signing keys can vote in validator elections and on-chain governance on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Any Locked Gold Account key may optionally authorize an undesignated key as a vote signing key. Authorized vote signing keys can vote for validator groups and for on-chain governance proposals on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.
```

Author: +1

> Any Locked Gold Account key may optionally authorize an undesignated key as a vote signing key. Authorized vote signing keys can vote in validator elections and on-chain governance on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

Reviewer 3: do we call them `vote signer keys` or `vote signing keys`? should change the header depending on which.. I vote for vote signer

Author: +1, made consistent everywhere

Note that the vote signing key must first be used to generate a "proof-of-possession" indicating that key's willingness to be authorized as a signer on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

> Authorized vote signing keys will only be used to send transactions and **can be stored on a Ledger hardware wallet**.

Reviewer 3: worth specifying here that they cannot be used to move funds?

Author: "can only be used to send voting txs"

### Authorizing a Vote Signer
An undesignated key may be authorized as a vote signer on behalf of a Locked Gold Account by running the following commands:

```shell
# Create a proof-of-possession. Note that the signer private key must be available.
celocli account:proof-of-possession --account $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT --signer $KEY_TO_AUTHORIZE --useLedger

# Authorize the vote signing key. Note that the Locked Gold Account private key must be available.
celocli account:authorize --from $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT --role vote --signer $KEY_TO_AUTHORIZE --signature $PROOF_OF_POSSESSION --useLedger

# Confirm that the vote signer was authorized
celocli account:show $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT

# You can also look up account info via the authorized signer
celocli account:show $KEY_TO_AUTHORIZE
```

## Authorized Validator Signers

> Any Locked Gold Account key may optionally authorize an undesignated key as a validator signer. Authorized validator signing keys can be used to register and manage a validator or validator group on behalf of the Locked Gold Account. If the authorized validator key is used to register a validator it is also used to sign consensus messages.

Reviewer 2: authorize another account as a Validator Signer

### Authorized Validator Signers for Validator Groups
An authorized validator signer key that will be used to register a validator group can be used to send group management transactions (e.g. register, add member A, queue commission update to 0.25, etc.) Because this key does not participate directly in consensus it **can be stored on a Ledger hardware wallet.**

> ### Authorized Validator Signers for Validators

Reviewer 3: naive reader hat -- can I use the same validator signer for both group and validator?

> An authorized validator signer key that will be used to register a validator can be used to send validator management transactions (e.g. register, affiliate with group A, etc.) This key will also be used to sign consensus messages and thus *cannot be stored on a Ledger hardware wallet* as signing consensus messages is not currently supported by the Celo Ledger App.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An authorized validator signer key that will be used to register a validator can be used to send validator management transactions (e.g. register, affiliate with group A, etc.) This key will also be used to sign consensus messages and thus **cannot be stored on a Ledger hardware wallet** as signing consensus messages is not currently supported by the Celo Ledger App.
```

Note that the validator signing key must first be used to generate a "proof-of-possession" indicating that key's willingness to be authorized as a signer on behalf of the Locked Gold Account.

### Authorizing a Validator Signer

> An undesignated key may be authorized as a validator signer on behalf of a Locked Gold Account by running the following commands:

Reviewer 3: note should we use `LockedGold` to refer to the contract and add a link somewhere? It is referenced a lot

Author: Linked to the docs page on locked gold

```shell
# Create a proof-of-possession. Note that the signer private key must be available.
# Note that the signing key can be kept on a Ledger if it will be used to run a Validator Group.
celocli account:proof-of-possession --account $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT --signer $KEY_TO_AUTHORIZE

# Authorize the validator signing key. Note that the Locked Gold Account private key must be available.
# Note that if a Validator has previously been registered on behalf of the Locked Gold Account it
# may be desirable to include the BLS key here as well. Please see the documentation below on validator
# key rotation for more information.
celocli account:authorize --from $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT --role validator --signer $KEY_TO_AUTHORIZE --signature $PROOF_OF_POSSESSION --useLedger

# Confirm that the vote signer was authorized
celocli account:show $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT

# You can also look up account info via the authorized signer
celocli account:show $KEY_TO_AUTHORIZE
```

## Authorized Validator BLS Signers

> The Celo protocol uses BLS signatures in consensus to ultimately determine whether or not a particular block is valid. Many BLS signatures over the same content can be combined into a single "aggregated signature", allowing several kilobytes of signatures to be compressed into fewer than 100 bytes, ensuring that the block headers remain compact and mobile friendly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Celo protocol uses BLS signatures in consensus to ultimately determine whether or not a particular block is valid. Many BLS signatures over the same content can be combined into a single "aggregated signature", allowing several kilobytes of signatures to be compressed into fewer than 100 bytes, ensuring that the block headers remain compact and light client friendly.
```

Author: Done

When registering a Validator on behalf of a Locked Gold Account, users must provide a BLS public key, as well as a proof-of-possession to protect against [rogue key attacks](https://crypto.stanford.edu/~dabo/pubs/papers/BLSmultisig.html).

> By default users can derive the BLS key directly from their authorized validator signer key. From a key management perspective, this means that the authorized BLS signer key is **exactly the same** as the authorized validator signer key.

Reviewer 3: security perspective?

Author: "key management and security perspective"?

I think folks will want to realize that this isn't exactly another key that they need to custody

> Most users will only need to think about BLS signer keys when registering a validator, or when authorizing a new validator signing key *after* registering a validator. It follows that when a validator authorizes a new validator signer key, the BLS public key and proof-of-possession for the new authorized validator signer should be provided as well.

Reviewer 3: what happens if I keep using the old BLS key?

Author: Out of scope for this documentation. It would work fine so long as you still had the BLS key accessible

Advanced users may optionally derive their BLS key separately, but that is out of the scope of this documentation.

### Deriving a BLS public key

To derive a BLS public key and proof-of-possession from the authorized validator signer key, and use that information to register a validator, run the following commands:
```shell
# Derive the BLS public key and create a proof-of-possession. Note that the signer private key must be available.
# Also note that BLS proof-of-possessions are not currently supported by celocli
docker run -v $PWD:/root/.celo --rm -it $CELO_IMAGE --nousb account proof-of-possession $AUTHORIZED_VALIDATOR_SIGNER $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT --bls

# Register the Validator with the authorized validator signer on behalf of the Locked Gold Account
celocli validator:register --from $AUTHORIZED_VALIDATOR_SIGNER --blsKey $BLS_PUBLIC_KEY --blsSignature $BLS_PROOF_OF_POSSESSION

# Confirm that the validator was registered
celocli validator:show $LOCKED_GOLD_ACCOUNT

# You can also look up the validator via the authorized signer
celocli validator:show $AUTHORIZED_VALIDATOR_SIGNER
```

> ## Authorized Attestations Signers

Reviewer 3: Attestation plural?

Author: Done
